# DotCom Bubble

**After the web was made public there was a rise in commercial use of the web. So people were trying their best to utilize the web**

*After the web was made public there was a rise in commercial use of the web. So people were trying their best to utilize the web. During the 1990's there were two startups founded which became giant companies later.First is Amazon founded by Jeff Bezos who was highly analytical and was a spreadsheet fan. He wanted to sell things on the web so he used to write things which he could sell and books would always end at the top. Second is Ebay, founded by Pierre omidyar. He wanted to create an online auction place so that people from all over the world had an equal chance at obtaining the item.After launch of this website they gained success immediately. Moore's and Metcalfe's law helped make computing easier. There were also fatal flaws in encryption which was overcomed by public key cryptography.Fiber optics is made of glass or plastic. It can carry data in the form of beams of light. Reflection method is used so that the light can reflect throughout the path and reach the destination. The data is sent in the form of light so light streams may not be continuous. It just has to be directed towards the right path.*

*As the people were getting familiar with the web they were more interested in public offerings. People started buying shares in any company whose name was associated with .com it was also called the internet bubble. Amazon and Ebay had great IPOs which not only made them richer but famous also. This inspired many new people to start startups. Many companies or started new in this area didn't know how to set up or do business due to which they wasted a lot of money in launch parties, ads, campaigns, etc. There were so many .coms created which had no idea or were not organised. This led to the fall, crash or burst in the bubble. This did not just occur in the computer field but also in telecommunications. Many companies were doubted if they would be able to produce results which led to the fall in the stock market but those some companies also had huge profits. Amazon and Ebay were not affected much by the fall as they were well established for their customer.Amazon had offered the best possible customer service due to which it retained its position. After the companies left grew even more.*

